[Music]
and it shall be when you come into the
land which the Lord your God is giving
you as an inheritance and you possess it
and dwell in it that you shall take some
of the first of all the produce of the
Grauman which you shall bring from your
land that the Lord your God is giving
you and put it in the basket and go to
the place where the Lord your God
chooses to make his name abide and you
shall go to the one who is priest in
those days and say to him I declare
today to the Lord your God that I have
come to the country which the Lord swore
to our fathers to give us then the
priest shall take the basket out of your
hand and set it down the before the
altar of the Lord your God and you shall
answer and say before the Lord your God
my father was a Syrian about to perish
and he went down to Egypt and dwelt
there few in number and there he became
a mission great mighty and populous but
the Egyptians mistreated us afflicted us
and laid hard bondage on us then we
cried out to the Lord God of our fathers
and the Lord heard our voice and looked
on our affliction and our labor and our
oppression so the Lord brought us out of
Egypt with a mighty hand and with an
outstretched arm with great terror and
with signs and wonders he has brought us
to this place and has given us this land
a land flowing with milk and honey and
now behold I have brought the
firstfruits of the land which you O Lord
have given me then you shall set it
before the Lord your God and worship
before the Lord your God so you shall
rejoice in every good thing which the
Lord your God has given to you and your
house you and the Levite and the
stranger who is among you when you have
finished laying aside all the tithes of
your increase in the third year the year
of tithing and have given it to the
Levite
the stranger the fatherless and the
widow so that they may eat within your
gates and be filled then you shall say
before the Lord your God I have removed
the holy tithe from my house and also
have given them to the Levites the
stranger the fatherless and the widow
according to all your Commandments which
you have commanded me
I have not transgressed your
Commandments nor have I forgotten them I
have not eaten any of it when in
mourning nor have I removed any of it
for an unclean use nor given any of it
for the dead I have obeyed the voice of
the Lord my God and have done according
to all that you have commanded me
look down from your holy habitation from
heaven and bless your people Israel and
the land which you have given us just as
you swore to our fathers a land flowing
with milk and honey
this day the Lord your God commands you
to observe these statutes and judgments
therefore you shall be careful to
observe them with all your heart and
with all your soul
today you have proclaimed the Lord to be
your God and that you will walk in his
ways and keep his statutes his
Commandments and his judgments and that
you will obey his voice also today the
Lord has proclaimed you to be his
special people just as he promised you
that you should keep all his
Commandments and that he will set you
high above all nations which he has made
in praise in name and in honor and that
you may be a holy people to the
Lord your God just as he has spoken